So well come back and this lesson where you look at break and continue and how they work within loops.
So earlier we saw how we can build a table within a loop and if for instance Well some want to break
out of this loop.
We don't want to continue to the value of 10.
We can do a quick check and have the ability to actually jump out of this.
So all we need is a condition and this condition gives us the ability to write some code to run some
code.
So let's do a roll.
And in this case we're going to check to see if RHO is equal to 5 and if it is then all we're going
to do is break.
So let me show you what happens now.
So we refresh the page.
We actually get the five five rows of content.
And this is where break comes in and actually stops the execution of the loop.
So there are instances where you might need to break out of the loop.
And this is how you do it.
You just simply enter and break.
Usually it's done with a condition and if that condition evaluates to TRUE that won't just break out
of it.
So this could be used for instances if maybe some of these values you don't want to post them.
If you've got some if you working off of a set number of values and you post them in the cells and then
all of a sudden something is corrupted or it's not right.
They can break out of it really easily.
So the other one that I want to talk to about is continue.
So continue.
We do it the same way we do conditional and we ask to see if that will do it for five as well.
So next we continue.
So what do you think will happen here.
If we add and continue we saw what happened with break but continue is actually a complete opposite
of break because break makes sense to jump out of that.
But continue.
So what do you think continue is going to do here and pay and look at what the output is going to be.
So when I go and if I refresh it what do you think happened with continue.
So let me explain.
So what's gone on here is we've gone through the first roll second third fourth fifth and this one is.
Now we know that roll is equal to five.
So what's happening here is that we actually see all of this part here with continue and we go back
to the irradiation of the loop value.
So all that's happened here is we jumped over that value and we've simply simply skipped it.
So this is important to know that if for instance I want to do something if I put continue at the bottom
it's actually not going to make any difference because this is continue at the bottom of the code and
I'm not running any additional code on after here.
So you can see this by this type of format.
If I was setting a value and I'm going to use Holder again so I'm going to just say for now it's empty.
And what we're going to do is we're going to add some values in it.
So basically I can't put a value of holder and I'm going to equal that too.
It would just take that value that's contained within the cell.
And we'll do it like Dock's amps then
just thinking where I put it in a more meaningful format.
So just to hold her over here.
So basically what's happening is they should be equal.
But I've got continue over here so watch what happens on line number five and we can see that they all
equal
So notice that within this cell here it's equal to the 26 that we have here.
So these values are the same because what's happened is that we've skipped resetting the value for Holder.
We've gone back already here and we've continued the loop.
So Holder never got a chance to update because we had to continue which was actually blocking the execution
of the code.
If this condition was true.